SAM J. OAKLEY
WEB & APP DEVELOPER
sam@blork.co.uk
(+44) 07951289441

PROFILE
I'm a student currently in my 3rd year of a Software Engineering course. Programming is my passion. Currently I work primarily with the web & and mobile environments, but I have experience with desktop & server programming as well. 

SKILLS
• Web Design & Development
	Designed over 30 sites; responsible for maintenance of over 100; extensive experience in the major languages of the web.
• Android Mobile Development
	Developed a range of Android applications with a total of 15,000+ active users and 40,000+ unique downloads.
• Eagerness to Learn
	Always ready to develop new skills & take advantage of the latest technologies.

TECHNICAL
The Web
• XHTML
• CSS
• Javascript & jQuery
• SQL
 
Languages
• Java
• Python
• PHP 5
• Haskell
• C

Platforms
• Android
• Windows
• Linux
	 
EXPERIENCE

GMedia - Android Application Developer - 2011
Developed an Android radio streaming application which could be easily configured and styled allowing it to be repackaged and sold to many clients. GMedia had an existing iPhone application, but no experience on the Android platform. I was tasked with replicating the features of the iOS app in Java, but taking full advantage of the Android OS, and inkeeping with the visual style present on the platform.

Websell Masters - Web Designer - 2008-2010
Worked to produce high quality websites, mainly focusing on the tourism industry. I was tasked with creating designs for the clients' consideration using Adobe Fireworks, then, once a design was agreed upon, constructing the site using XHTML+CSS+JS up to the latest W3C standards. Some sites would require PHP work, which I was also responsible for, along with updating and maintaining older websites.

Websell Masters - Web Developer - 2010-Present
Began greater involvement with the back-end design and implementation of sites. I pushed for greater use of the new features introduced with PHP5, as many previous sites were PHP4 only. This including developing a custom e-commerce site with shopping cart using object-oriented PHP5 and MySQL. Other major projects I was involved with include assisting with the development of a recruitment site, and a large tourism focused directory. In this role I also took on the responsibility of training new employees in best practices and the use of our systems.

SIDE PROJECTS
Mining & Integrating a Large Amount of Information from the Web - Undergraduate Dissertation - 2010-Present
The dissertation for my degree course involves creating several 'mashups' using data about the local area. The mashups must be innovative and useful. The data is gathered from the semantic web of data, as well as from my own mining and scraping of web content. Combining the data and using language processing techniques will allow new observations to be made. The idea of the semantic web is a focus of the project, and all data will be made available in structured formats.

Astronomy Picture of the Day (Android Application) - Sole Developer - 2010
The application was written as a hobby project in order to improve my Android and Java abilities. Using the Astronomy Picture of the Day as provided by NASA, the app allows users to set it as their 'homescreen' wallpaper, as well as browse through the collection. On the server side, I used Google App Engine to process the large images provided by NASA and to output JSON representations of the information associated with each. The app is currently available in the Android Market, along with another 4 of my applications. As of now it has received over 30,000 downloads.

Sheffield Raising & Giving Society (Website) - Developer - 2010
As part of my degree course, I, along with the 4 other members of the team, designed and created a new website for the RAG society. This involved several client meetings in order to establish the requirements (which included an online event registration system), followed by the development of a system to meet them. Technologies used involved PHP combined with the CodeIgniter framework, as well as XHTML+CSS and Javascript on the front end. In competition with 3 other groups, our system was chosen as the winner and is now live as the new site.

Sheffield Raising & Giving Society (Android Application) - Sole Developer - 2010
As part of the aforementioned project, I created an Android app to interface with the website, downloading the details of events and presenting them in a format better suited to a mobile device. This was not an assessed part of the course; rather, I wished to learn how to develop for the platform. The app is currently available in the Android Market.

EDUCATION
University of Sheffield
Software Engineering (BEng)
2007-Present
Expected First or 2:1.

All Saints High School (Sheffield)
2000-2007
A-Levels in English Literature, History, Information Technology & General Studies.
Sam Oakley — sam@blork.co.uk — (+44) 07951289441

